---
layout: post

title: On Batch
category: post
---
Today I launched [Batch](http://adamwhitcroft.com/batch/), a 300 piece icon kit for web and user interface design. I am tremendously proud of what I've done with this kit and the reaction it's had so far has been simply overwhelming.

Batch was released with a price-tag attached. The first time I've charged for non-client work. This was strange for me, as I'm very much in the spirit of giving things back to a community that has given me so much. The decision to charge for this pack did not come lightly, and I spent a great deal of time trying to attach a number to something I created with no intention of selling initially.

At the time of writing, the site has had just shy of 900 visits. Of those, 78 went through to Gumroad, and of that, 2 purchases were made. That's a pretty telling story in of itself.

Batch has been widely circulated on Twitter and the feedback I've gotten on [Dribbble](http://dribbble.com/shots/824696-Batch-300-Pictographs-for-Web-User-Interface-Design) has been nothing but positive, but the numbers just weren't what I wanted.

I realised that I had made a mistake. I didn't start Batch with the aim of selling it, and I was never truly convinced I should.

I want to see Batch in as many designs as possible. I want it to be a resources designers will revert to happily and often, and without the fear of forgetting a silly attribution link.

I want Batch to be something people use, not something they buy.

Batch is now available for free.

*To those who have purchased Batch: You have been fully refunded. Thank you for your support, you are tremendous.*

###The reaction

The reaction to this bit of news was a bit of a surprise. Mentions and visits shot up which is always great, but the reaction from some of my peers and people I respect caught me completely off guard. It seems, to some, that by changing my mind and removing the price tag I had undersold myself.

I take what I do very seriously, and I have a tremendous amount of respect for my industry and my craft. I spent a great deal of time on Batch making sure it was the best it could possibly be before taking it public. I spent hours fettling the smallest details most will probably never see. Why?

Because it makes me happy.

I didn't get into this industry to make money. I got into it because designing stuff makes me happy. What makes me even happier is knowing that something I've made has helped someone else, in whatever small way that may be.

If removing an arbitrary dollar value from something I've made because I'd like it to reach more people means I've sold myself short, so be it.

I'm in this for me.